("The Call of Spring")
♪ Now the mist has cleared
♪ As day is dawning
♪ It's all becoming
clearer to me ♪
♪ The seasons change
♪ As I change with them
♪ And the call of spring
♪ Gives me strength
♪ And courage to know
♪ I will make it through
♪ Whatever life throws at me
♪ Summer's sweet scent
♪ Autumn's whisper
♪ Winter stings with the cold
♪ When trouble comes
rolling in like thunder ♪
♪ Tears may fall
♪ Fear may call
♪ But with spring in my heart
♪ When seasons change
♪ I'll change with them
♪ And I know I can
weather the storm ♪
(intense music)
- Let me have some
quiet for our baby,
so it can hear me sing.
- Out for a spot
of hunting, are we?
Tonight when you should be
inside, having your baby.
(rustling)
(thunder rumbling)
- My good men,
I'm a father!
(cheering)
(lightning cracking)
- [Narrator] On the
night Ronja was born,
lightning split
Mattis' fort in two.
Far from being furious,
Mattis simply laughed it off.
Ronja was all he cared about.
She captured his heart, and
that of all the robbers.
(hooves clopping)
(birds chirping)
(imitating owl hooting)
(march-like music)
- Here they come, two wagons.
- With no guards, ha,
this ought to be easy.
- Wait for my signal, all right?
- [Lill-Klippen and
Fjosok] Yes, Chief.
- Chief!
(Mattis grunting)
The porridge is ready.
(Mattis groaning)
Hmm.
- We're pulling out!
(horse neighing)
(imitating owl hooting)
(grunting)
(regal orchestral music)
(hooves clopping)
Hiyah!
(door creaking)
(gurgling)
(exhaling heavily)
(heavy footsteps)
(thudding)
(groaning)
Ronja.
(grunting and groaning)
- [Robbers] Ronja,
Ronja, Ronja, Ronja.
- [Robber] Where are you?
- [Fjosok] There's no
need to hide, come on out.
- [Tjorm] Come out, come
out wherever you are.
- [Robbers] Where are you?
- [Mattis] Where are you?
Let your father see
your beautiful face.
- [Tjorm] Where are ya?
- Goodness.
Each and every one of them.
They've all gone crazy
for little Ronja.
- [Robbers] Ronja, Ronja.
- [Mattis] Where is she?
Where's little Ronja?
- [Lovis] How dare you come
home when the sun's still high.
- Ronja.
Ronja, Ronja.
- We're all going to starve
if you keep skipping work,
coming back to
feed your daughter.
- [Mattis] Where are you Ronja?
Where are you?
Where did you go?
- Fjosok, Sturkas.
That's right, I'm
talking to you.
I've had just about enough.
Really now, this is your fault.
If Mattis tries this again,
you tell that dopey,
doting father to stop.
Even if that means taking two
or three punches from him.
(laughing)
Jutis, Lill-Klippen!
(thudding)
You listening?
(Ronja cooing)
- Ah, my little pigeon!
(Mattis sighing)
(sighing)
(laughing)
(Lovis sighing)
(Noddle-Pete laughing)
(playful music)
Here you go, ah, like this.
- Ah.
- Just a little
wider, ah, like that.
- [Fjosok and Sturkas] Ah.
- Now eat it all up, chew chew.
(cooing)
Ah.
- [Robbers] Ah.
(chomping and gulping)
(robbers sighing)
(Noddle-Pete laughing)
(giggling)
(laughing)
- Chief, look at your face!
(thudding)
(crying)
Disgusting.
- Now look what you've done!
You noisy fools have made
my little pigeon cry!
(crying)
- Yeah, and now you've
made it even worse.
- You are quite a bit
louder than the rest of us.
(gasping)
- Hm?
(babbling)
(groaning)
(laughing)
- Oh my, who would ever think
that you're the most powerful
robber chieftain of all time?
Oh, oh if Borka saw you now,
he would split his
sides laughing.
(Lovis laughing)
- And you know I would
stop him from laughing.
(hooves clopping)
- Borka, they're coming.
- I haven't seen the Mattis
Robbers around recently.
- Good, makes our job
a little easier, eh?
Here they come!
- Uh, Chief?
- [Borka] It is almost time.
- Huh?
(birds calling)
- We're pulling out!
(horse neighing)
Hi-ya!
(birds calling)
(Ronja cooing)
- Over here, Ronja.
- [Robbers] Hey, hey, hey,
hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,
hey, hey, hey, hey, hey.
(Ronja cooing)
(tranquil music)
- Hey ya.
(laughing)
(giggling)
Oh my little one.
Of all the babies
in all the world,
I can't imagine any
crawling as well as you.
- I'm very impressed
with her technique.
Not many babies can
turn like that, mm, mm.
- Not many babies
are Ronja, are they?
(Ronja giggling)
- Most babies can do that.
- You're so clever,
yes you are, yes you are.
- And Mr. Mattis, with
you busy babysitting,
should we just let Borka
take over robbing the road?
- Don't worry, I brought
back plenty of treasures.
Look!
(giggling)
- Ronja, here's some
treasure from me.
- Ah, and from me!
- Oh yeah, you'll like this.
(giggling)
- Hm.
- That's nothing.
(grunting)
Ronja.
No, one.
(rustling)
Ha, ta-da!
(Pelje laughing)
(Robbers groaning)
- What do you
think you're doing!
Get that outside!
(laughing)
(whimsical music)
(crickets chirping)
(robbers chattering)
(lively music)
(Ronja giggling)
(drunken chattering)
(drunken singing)
(Ronja giggling)
(thudding)
(giggling)
(babbling)
Ronja!
You're like a
beautiful little Harpy.
Like their feathers,
you're just as soft,
and as dark-haired,
but so pretty.
Am I right?
Am I right!
- [Robbers] Yes!
- [Mattis] You never saw
such a splendid child
in all your lives, yes?
Yes?
- [Robbers] Yes!
- Eh, oh!
(Ronja giggling)
Such a beauty!
(humming)
(laughing)
(happily screaming)
(grunting)
- [Robbers] Hey!
(chanting)
- [All] Ha!
(lively music)
Oh ah!
- The older you get, the
quicker time goes by.
The days seemed to drag on
forever, now they fly past.
In the blink of an eye,
she's all grown up.
- [Lovis] It's true, but
she'll always be my baby.
- Hmm?
(laughing and cheering)
(birds chirping)
(bleating)
(footsteps)
(oinking)
- Good morning!
Morning, Noddle-Pete!
- Morning to you.
- [Ronja] Good morning, Sturkas!
- Good morning!
- [Ronja] Jutis, Turre!
- Hey, hey.
- Ha.
- [Ronja] Pelje!
- Morning, Ronja!
- [Ronja] Knotas!
- All right.
(bleating)
- [Ronja] Joen, good morning!
- Hm.
Oh, good morning!
- Go on, eat up.
(pattering)
- Hmm.
(milk squirting)
(bleating)
- [Lovis] Something
on your mind, Mattis?
- Lovis, our child
must go to the forest,
to know what it's
like out there.
Don't you think it's time?
- Of course, what a
great idea Mattis.
And it's nice to see you
figured it out by yourself.
You know, if it were up to me,
it would have happened
a long time ago.
(milk squirting)
(bleating)
(Mattis sighs)
- [Mattis] Ronja!
- Yes Father?
Look at them all!
You think one of
them might hatch?
- Only if it's
ready to come out.
- Hm?
(peaceful music)
(crunching)
(gasping)
- Here's your lunch.
- This'll be so much fun.
Here I go!
- Mm-hmm, there you go.
Hmm, hmm.
(gasping)
(scraping)
- [Noddle-Pete] Mm-hm.
(Noddle-Pete laughing)
- Father, I'm going now.
- Ronja, you need to be careful.
The forest, it's full
of Borka Robbers,
Wild Harpies, Gray Dwarves.
You need to watch out for them.
- Yes, but how will I know
which ones are Borka Robbers,
which ones are Wild
Harpies, and um,
the Gray Dwarves,
which ones are those?
- Uh, well, you'll find out.
- Fine, good advice.
- One more thing.
Um, don't get lost
or go too far.
- How will I know if I'm
lost or if I've gone too far?
- Don't go beyond the lake
and stick to the path.
- Also good advice.
- [Mattis] And try not
to fall in the river.
- Of course, no
falling into the river,
but what if I do?
- [Mattis] Swim.
- [Ronja] Hmm, all right.
- And please Ronja, watch
that you don't tumble
into Hell's Gap.
- Don't worry, I'll try not
to, but what if I do fall?
- If that happens...
- And if that happens?
(inhaling and exhaling)
(screaming)
- Oh, you'll never
do anything again.
(screaming)
No, no, no, no, no!
- Fine, don't fall
into Hell's Gap.
Do you want to tell me
about anything else?
Or is that everything?
Because I really want to go.
(breathing heavily)
- Yeah, there is.
But you'll learn
as you go along,
and I'll see you
when you get home.
Enough, go on.
- Mm-hmm.
(doors creaking)
(dramatic music)
(gasping)
(excited screaming)
(laughing)
- And come home before
it gets too dark!
- Don't worry, I will!
- Time for us to go, as well.
- [Robbers] Yes!
- Hm, hey.
- It's Ronja.
Ronja!
Where are you going,
all on your own?
- [Ronja] I'm going
to the forest!
It's my first time out there!
Here I go, bye!
- You're aware the forest
is full of Harpies,
also Gray Dwarves, and
scary Borka Robbers.
- [Ronja] Yes, Mattis
told me that, bye!
(lively music)
(gasping)
(laughing)
(grunting)
- [Narrator] And so for
the first time ever,
after years of living inside
the safety of the fort,
Ronja headed into the
forest, all on her own.
Next time on Ronja,
The Robber's Daughter,
"Fear in the Forest".
Don't miss it.
(lively music)